Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining.
Today, we'll discuss how you can make the most
of custom product pages.
We've designed this presentation
for people who are familiar with this feature
and hoping to enhance their custom product pages
on the App Store.
If you need a refresher on what this feature is
and how to set it up, you can check
our Get started with custom product pages video
on the Apple Developer website.
Now, let's get into today's presentation.
I'm Savannah and I'm part of the
App Store Business Management team,
and I'll be joined by Chris from the Apple Search Ads team.
Today, we'll start with a quick summary
of what custom product pages are.
Then, we'll share some success stories featuring
developers who have effectively used this feature.
Then, Chris will share how custom product pages
can be used with Apple Search Ads
along with some developer success stories.
Then, we'll conclude with some general takeaways
to keep in mind as you continue to create
your custom product pages.
First, let's briefly recap what custom product pages are.
Custom product pages allow you to create
additional versions of your App Store product page,
each of which highlights a specific feature or content
that might appeal to a particular audience.
So for an app like Mountain Climber,
you could create one page to highlight
the live streaming feature
for people interested in following
their favorite climbers in real time,
or another page highlighting the GPS tracking feature
to help people find their friends on a hike.
For each custom product page,
you can customize your screenshots,
app preview videos, and promotional text,
and you can create up to 35 different custom product pages
in App Store Connect.
Just like your default product page,
each page is fully localizable.
You can submit custom product pages to App Review
independent of an app binary,
and they will remain active if you submit a new build.
Lastly, you can direct people
to a particular custom product page using its unique URL
for the marketing efforts outside of the App Store.
You can use App Analytics in App Store Connect
to view the performance and a variety of metrics
for each custom product page, including product page views,
total downloads and conversion rate,
as well as additional metrics
like average retention and sessions,
to help you understand user engagement after a download.
Under the Acquisition tab in App Store Connect,
you can easily view the performance
of all your custom product pages at a glance
as well as comparing them against the default page.
The key metric here is conversion rate,
which is defined as the percentage
of unique product page visitors that convert
to downloads and re-downloads.
It's the main metric to evaluate the performance
of your custom product page.
You can also view the same data by product page
under the Metrics tab with more flexibility
to view the trend over time.
To dive more deeply into the performance
of one specific custom product page,
you can filter by the page name,
for example, the competitive hiking page,
and view additional metrics associated with that page.
For example, you can view the total proceeds
and paying users from this competitive hiking page
and calculate metrics like average proceeds per paying user
which can be a key metric to optimize
for post-install performance.
Next, let's look at some examples of developers
that successfully leveraged this feature
in their marketing efforts.
We've seen developers utilize custom product pages
in a variety of ways.
For today, we'll focus on three use cases:
reaching specific audiences,
showcasing seasonal updates and events,
and highlighting specific content and features.
We'll showcase developers' referral success stories
for the first two use cases,
and Chris from the Apple Search Ads team
will go through the last use case in the next section.
Starting with reaching specific audiences.
State of Survival is a top strategy game made by FunPlus
where players build shelters, upgrade their equipment,
and make allies in order to survive
the post-zombie apocalypse.
With custom product pages, FunPlus wanted to improve
their referral conversion rates
and reach more role-playing gamer audience
on their marketing channels.
They partnered with IronSource to create audience segments
based on IronSource's different source apps
focusing on role-playing gamers,
and customize all five screenshots
tailoring to this audience group.
To evaluate success, they looked at conversion rate
and cost per install as key performance indicators.
Let's see what this looks like.
On the left, you can see their default product page
where they highlight different aspects of the game
in their screenshots to appeal to a broader audience.
On the right is their custom page
with a new set of screenshots
highlighting different characters within the game.
When FunPlus included this custom product page
in more focused marketing efforts
tailored to RPG audiences,
they saw a 33% higher conversion rate
and a 14% lower cost per install.
So what can we learn from FunPlus?
FunPlus segmented players who enjoy RPG games
and highlighted these aspects of the game
in their screenshots along with their
off-store marketing creatives.
This has resulted in improved conversion rates
and lower cost per install.
When you are designing your custom page,
think about your different audience groups,
and how you can identify these audience segments
in your marketing campaigns, and share the specific content
throughout their user journey.
Let's take a look at another developer example
for seasonal updates and events.
CBS Sports is a free app which gives people
front-row access to the latest in sports.
They want to improve their marketing efficiency
for their mobile users who are visiting
the CBS Sports website
during the March Madness basketball tournament.
They customized all five screenshots
on their custom product page to highlight the tournament,
and they measured success by looking
at their conversion rates, as well as signups
for the tournament year over year.
Here's what the seasonal page looks like
compared to the default.
In their default page, CBS Sports focused
on more evergreen features
like watching live sports and track the game score.
On the right is their seasonal page
highlighting March Madness.
They customize their screenshots
to call out limited-time features
like the ability to enter and follow your bracket
and play with friends.
The imagery in these screenshots also showed
the relevant UI within the app.
This message helped reinforce the product features
specific to that event.
As a result, the custom product page
saw a 20% uplift in conversion rate
as well as a 48% improvement
in March Madness tournament signups year over year.
CBS Sports has provided a great example
for seasonal content, which was thematically consistent
with their overarching brand campaigns.
You can consider what seasonal content
or limited time features you might highlight for your app
and reinforce those for your specific audiences.
In the previous two success stories,
developers are using external marketing channels
to drive people to the custom product page.
If you wish to use custom product pages
on paid media campaigns, here's the ecosystem flow.
You'll have the URL approved in App Store Connect
which needs to be shared
with your marketing partner of choice.
The marketing partner needs to update the setup
in their StoreKit integration so that the source app
can properly display the custom product page.
If the marketing partner supports the update,
customers will see the custom product page as intended.
If the marketing partner hasn't supported yet,
the customers will fall back to see the default page.
Remember that if you engage in any tracking activity
with any of your partners,
you must use app tracking transparency framework
to ask for user permission.
Now that we've discussed how you can use
custom product pages to refer people from external sources,
let's look at how you can use custom product pages
with Apple Search Ads.
I'll pass it over to my colleague, Chris,
to walk you through the integration and learnings there.
As Savannah mentioned, Apple Search Ads
is seamlessly integrated with custom product pages,
which means you can use approved custom product page assets
to set up search results ad variations
or Today tab ad campaigns in Apple Search Ads.
With Today tab campaigns, you can promote your app
on the first tab of the App Store
and capture people's attention with creative
that animates from right to left.
To run ads on the Today tab,
you'll need a custom product page
with at least four portrait or five landscape images
that adhere to our creative guidelines.
The assets from custom product pages you select will be
showcased with a darkened and blurred visual effect.
That background is automatically generated from your assets.
And the high impact design and prominence of this placement
make it a great option to reach more users on the App Store
and drive awareness and interest in your app.
For your search results campaigns,
you can use custom product pages to create ad variations
that align with your different keyword ad groups.
This is a great way to showcase app content
that connects with what people are searching for.
Let's explore a few examples, starting with Baidu.
As a leading search engine platform in China,
Baidu helps people find a wide variety
of content, products, and services
to manage and enhance their daily lives.
Everybody knows Baidu in China.
Or actually, everyone thinks they know Baidu.
But to demonstrate that they are much more
than a search engine, Baidu wanted to raise awareness
of in-app features other than traditional search.
To do this, they used ad variations
based on custom product pages to align ad creative
with specific keyword themes
in their Apple Search Ads campaigns.
For example, photo and image recognition related keywords
were aligned with custom ads, showcasing app features
like translating words in a photo
or identifying objects within a photo.
This helped the Baidu team to fully demonstrate
various in-app features with custom creatives,
increasing awareness and adoption
of their app's many features.
The optimized ad relevancy and user experience
enabled by ad variations with custom product pages
increased the install rate by 10%.
In a totally different industry,
German retailer Otto adopted a similar approach to Baidu.
For an app that features a broad assortment
of shopping categories, growing their customer base
meant reaching a diverse range of shoppers
interested in everything from fashion to furniture.
To better connect with a wide range of potential customers,
the Otto team created a new set
of custom product pages in App Store Connect
adding different app previews, screenshots,
and promotional text beyond their default product page.
They created ad variations
based on these custom product pages
and focused on three key ad groups
related to furniture, fashion, and electronics.
These new ad creatives visually highlighted
specific app content clearly related
to what customers in these three verticals
were searching for on the App Store.
For instance, images like a chair or a coffee table
were used for the furniture theme.
With these even more relevant ad variations,
Otto created a better alignment
between what people were searching for on the App Store
and what people were seeing in their ads.
The result?
An install rate 12% higher than their default ad.
These are just two of many examples
of developers who have leveraged custom product pages
to showcase their feature or content on the App Store.
We have also seen other advertisers
leverage custom product pages to create
relevant custom tailored ads that capture people's interest
during seasonal and promotional periods,
promote app content features or in-app events at launch,
remind past customers what your app has to offer,
or include screenshots and previews that will
more likely resonate in a certain country or region.
Thanks, Chris.
Now that we've shared some developer success stories
from both external referrals and Apple Search Ads,
let's discuss some general takeaways to help you
make the most of custom product pages.
Before you implement the custom page URL,
if you work with a marketing partner,
check with them to make sure they support this feature.
It's best to test the URL
before directing anyone to your page.
For best results, make sure to have a large enough audience
to reach enough installs and meaningful conversion rates.
And lastly, if you like to measure
any post-install performance across campaigns,
consider creating separate custom product pages
for each campaign or channel you plan to use.
Looking at some takeaways
around submitting your custom product pages,
we recommend being thoughtful on when you plan to submit.
As a reminder, custom product pages can be submitted
independent of your app release,
but be sure to consider any upcoming app releases
to avoid coinciding any new submissions
with your app release.
If you frequently update your app,
it may be faster to submit your custom product page
along with your app as a single submission to App Review.
And lastly, to ensure a smooth submission process,
be sure to follow the App Review Guideline Section 2.3
for accurate metadata and avoid including
any promotional information in your product page metadata
including pricing, offers, or sales.
Now, let's review some creative considerations
to help you create great custom product pages.
We've noticed that distinctive visuals
that highlight specific features
and appeal to specific audiences tend to be more effective.
Consider customizing at least the first two screenshots
as these are the first few visuals someone sees
when browsing your custom product page.
From the previous success stories,
we've seen that aligning your custom product page assets
and your off-store marketing assets
to include similar visuals and messaging
can lead to an improved conversion rate on the App Store.
And as always, be sure to keep their likes,
interests, and preferences in mind
when designing your custom product page.
For more information, check out the Apple developer website
which has helpful information about this feature
including the use cases, technical details, and more.
Thanks for watching.